>> Bianca Gandolfo: And we're gonna
talk about the implementation, right?
I asked you guy to think a little bit
about how this might look in code.
And we're gonna break it down.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, so
what data needs to be stored?
Two main things, right,
we need you to have the objects.
And the relationships, right?
So the object is being our food or
our people and or
our people and the relationships
being the lines or edges.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool, we're gonna
be using numbers to simplify, but
you can imagine that
this could be anything.
Some data structures you need
the value to be comparable, right?
So we can compare like greater or
less than something like that.
And those numbers are important for that.
But in a graph, we're still flexible but
we just use it for simplifying a label.
Okay, so there are three
main ways to represent a graph.
I'm going to tell you about two, and
I'll give you a recommendation about
which one to use in an interview setting.
And I also want you to be open minded,
like I've been saying this whole time.
That this is computer science,
there are many ways to solve
lots of different problems.
And it's up to you to think critically
about your particular problem that
you're solving.
Whether it's on the job, or at work,
or whatever it may be in your mind,
I don't know,
to model it to suit your needs, cool.
So the first one is
the adjacent matrix and
we're going to use that to
create our graph, right?
Because we can't code just circles and
lines we have to deal with
what we have access to.
Right, we have ones and
zeros, and we have, you
know, one through five as well,
but that's not what this is.
This is a matrix.
Have you guys worked at all with matrices?
Yea, a little bit.
Like in math class, maybe.
So the adjacency matrix, a matrix is
basically an array inside of an array,
right, when we get down to it.
It looks something like this.
I like this picture better though.
And so how we are modeling the
relationships here is with the ones and
zeros, okay?
How we're modeling the data
itself is through these vertices.
So one is one.
So one does not have
a relationship with itself.
So is zero okay.
2 is connected to 1,
as we can see here with this line.
So we add a 1 here, and
we also add a 1 here.
And so on and so forth.
So here our Edges.
Here are our Vertices.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool?
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: So 3 is connected to 0?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So 3,
we can look at 3 is connected to 2.
3 is also connected to 4.
>> Speaker 2: I see. Okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And that's it.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: So shouldn't 1 and
1 should also be 1?
I mean, that's called
a self loop and
in this case we don't have self loops.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: I'm kind of confused where
did we lose the people in the whole
equation.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
Where did we lose the people?
We'll get there.
We're gonna start with this and
then the people will be back.
You have a question.
>> Speaker 2: This is a dumb question, but
oaky, one is connected to, okay I get it.
Now I get it.
Never mind.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, cool.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right,
so Adjacency Matrix.
Here's the code.
Awesome, okay.
So now that we know that this is a 2D
array, we wanna add an edge, and
an edge is a relationship.
How do we represent an edge again?
With the number One or zero?
>> Speaker 3: One, one is the edge
zero is the lack of an entrenched.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
we'll pass like a couple of vertices and
we will set it to one.
So our adjacency matrix, we can call
it this, we have v1 at v2, right?
Equals to 1.
Of course this is not exact,
this is a little bit naive.
Right, there's a little bit more
that needs to happen here, right?
Because this is actually the 0th index for
example, it's not 1.
But you can imagine, right?
It's pretty simple, right?
We're just kinda toggling
these values to add an edge.
>> Speaker 4: So the v1 is this way,
v2 is that, down this way?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So the v1 and the v2,
these are just variable names so we could.
For example, call this, I wish this is,
it used to let me edit this.
>> Speaker 2: Why do
you wanna add an edge?
I mean, maybe there's.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Why
you wanna add an iedge?
Like what if, for example,
like I suddenly started to also like eggs.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And then I wanna
have that relationship represented.
>> Speaker 2: Maybe I'll, afterwards.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
do you wanna add an edge.
So what if like, I wanted to,
say this was a map, right?
This is a city, and these are like
intersections and these are roads.
And actually let's say these are points of
interest and these are roads between them.
Let's say that it's approved and
we're gonna build a row between
these two points of interest.
So we wanna add a new Edge
to connect these, yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And another
thing that we'll talk about soon is,
what if we wanna add
another point of interest?
So that would be adding
a node to our graph.
Another interesting thing,
is that you can add a node to a graph,
even if there's no edge.
So you can have sort of like
these disconnected components.
That's kind of fun, so
we'll talk more about that.
Okay, so we add in an edge,
this is just adding an edge and
removing an edge,
very similar, we set to zero.
Again, don't copy and paste this,
this is not actual code,
it's just kind of demonstrating, right?
Like we don't [INAUDIBLE] actually isn't
defined, you're gonna get errors but
this just.
To get the gist.
Do you guys get the gist?
Is it working?
Okay, awesome, all right,
time complexity for adding an edge.
>> Speaker 3: Constant time.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Constant time,
removing an edge?
>> Speaker 3: Constant.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: You
guys are good at this.
All right, so that's adjacency matrix.